docs(tutorial): remote desktop ubuntu 22.04 (#596)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/deploy-remote-desktop-ubuntu-2204/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Deploy a remote desktop with XRDP on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
  description: This page shows how to deploy a remote desktop environment with xfce and xrdp on Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
  h1: Deploy a remote desktop with XRDP on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
  paragraph: This page shows how to deploy a remote desktop environment with xfce and xrdp on Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
categories:
  - compute
  - instances
tags: remote-desktop remote session xRDP rdp desktop pc xFCE jammy-jellyfish
dates:
  validation: 2022-05-06
  posted: 2022-05-06
---

## Remote Desktop - Overview

> A cloud instance can be used with third party software to run a remote desktop. The software captures the Instance's screen and transmits it to another device, where the user can interact with the remote machine using its local keyboard and mouse. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instances can be used with third party software to run a remote desktop. The software captures the Instance's screen and transmits it to another device, where the user can interact with the remote machine using its local keyboard and mouse. 
```

A remote desktop can be useful for tasks such as:
* access to a remote computer from anywhere 

> * editing and sharing files between other machines using a high-speed 9nternet connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* editing and sharing files between other machines using a high-speed Internet connection
```

* perform admistrative tasks

> * perform live demonstations of applications installed on the remote machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* perform live demonstrations of applications installed on the remote machine
```

In this tutorial you learn deploying a remote desktop on a Instance running on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS) by using the following stack: 
* [xRDP](http://xrdp.org/) - an open-source alternative to Microsoft RDP (Microsoft Remote Desktop Protocol).
* [xfce](https://xfce.org/) - a lightweight and stable desktop environment 

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
- You have an Instance running on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
- You have sudo privileges or access to the root user

</Message>

## Preparing the remote machine

1. Connect to your Instance using `ssh`:

  ```
  ssh root@<your_instance_ip>
  ```

2. Update the `apt` sources list and upgrade the software already installed on the instance:

  ```
  apt update && apt upgrade -y
  ```

3. Install the required packages for the desktop environment using the `apt` package manager:

  ```
  apt install xorg xfce4 xfce4-goodies dbus-x11 x11-xserver-utils
  ```

> 4. The xRDP server binary is available in the default Ubuntu repositories and it can be installed using `apt`. The following command installs the packages `xrdp` and `ufw`, a firewall to protect your Instance from unauthorized access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The xRDP server binary is available in the default Ubuntu repositories and it can be installed using `apt`.

4. Run the following command installs the packages `xrdp` and `ufw`, a firewall to protect your Instance from unauthorized access:
```

  ```
  apt install xrdp ufw
  ```

> 5. The package manager configures the service to be automatically started upon system reboot. Run the following command to check that the service has been started during the installation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The package manager configures the service to be automatically started upon system reboot.

5. Run the following command to check that the service has been started during the installation:
```

  ```
  systemctl status xrdp
  ```

  A message like the following displays, confirming the status `active (running)`:

  ```
  ● xrdp.service - xrdp daemon
       Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/xrdp.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
       Active: active (running) since Fri 2022-05-06 14:40:08 UTC; 47s ago
  ```

  In case the service has not been started automatically, start it with `systemctl`:

  ```
  systemctl start xrdp
  ```

6. Open the xRDP configuration file in a text editor of your choice, for example `nano`:

  ```
  nano /etc/xrdp/xrdp.ini
  ```

5. Scroll to the bottom of the file and add the following line, then save the file and exit the text editor:

  ```
  exec startxfce4
  ```

6. Restart the xrdp service using `systemctl` to activate the new configuration:

  ```
  systemctl restart xrdp
  ```

> ## Configuring the firewally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring the firewall
```

1. Restrict the access to port `3389` to an IP address or a range of IPs. To allow access from the block `192.168.1.0/24` launch the following command:

  ```
  ufw allow from 192.168.1.0/24 to any port 3389
  ```

  To allow connections from any host run the following command:

  ```
  ufw allow 3389
  ```
  <Message type="important">

  Exposing the service to any IP may cause a security issue.

  </Message>

2. Enable the firewall:

  ```
  ufw enable
  ```

  <Message type="tip">

  For more information on how to configure the firewall of your Instance, you can [read our tutorial about the configuration of ufw on Ubuntu](/tutorials/installation-uncomplicated-firewall/).

  </Message>

## Configuring a regular user

> It is recommended to create a regular user to connect to the remote desktop, to avoid security issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend you create a regular user to connect to the remote desktop, to avoid security issues.
```

1. Add the user with the `adduser` command:

  ```
  adduser <myuser>
  ```

> 2. (Optionally) If you want to give superuser rights to the user, install sudo using the `apt` package manager:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install sudo using the `apt` package manager if you want to give superuser rights to the user. (Optional).

  ```
  apt install sudo
  ```

> 3. (Optionally) Add the user to the sudoers file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the user to the sudoers file. (Optional)
```

  ```
  adduser <myuser> sudo
  ```

## Connecting to the remote desktop

> 1. Download and install a RDP client of your choice. We will use the [Microsoft Remote Desktop Client](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/clients/remote-desktop-clients) in this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download and install a RDP client of your choice. In this tutorial we use the [Microsoft Remote Desktop Client](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/clients/remote-desktop-clients).
```

> 2. Start the RDP client and click **Add Desktop** to add a new connection :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Start the RDP client and click **Add Desktop** to add a new connection:
```

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-rdp_01.webp" alt="" />

> 3. Enter the connection details. You need to enter at least your Instances IP in the **PC name**. Optionally you can add a **Friendly Name** to facilitate the identification of your instance in case you configure several RDP connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter the connection details. You must enter at least your Instance's IP under **PC name**. Optionally, you can add a **Friendly Name** to facilitate the identification of your instance in case you configure several RDP connections.
```

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-rdp_02.webp" alt="" />

> 4. Double click the connection icon. During the first connection, you may be asked to validate the fingerprint of the instance. Click **OK** to confirm the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Double click the connection icon. During the first connection, you may be asked to validate the fingerprint of the Instance. Click **OK** to confirm the connection.
```

---
meta:
  title: Deploy a remote desktop with XRDP on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
  description: This page shows how to deploy a remote desktop environment with xfce and xrdp on Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
  h1: Deploy a remote desktop with XRDP on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
  paragraph: This page shows how to deploy a remote desktop environment with xfce and xrdp on Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
categories:
  - compute
  - instances
tags: remote-desktop remote session xRDP rdp desktop pc xFCE jammy-jellyfish
dates:
  validation: 2022-05-06
  posted: 2022-05-06
---

## Remote Desktop - Overview

Instances can be used with third party software to run a remote desktop. The software captures the Instance's screen and transmits it to another device, where the user can interact with the remote machine using its local keyboard and mouse. 

A remote desktop can be useful for tasks such as:

> * access to a remote computer from anywhere 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* accessing a remote computer from anywhere 
```

* editing and sharing files between other machines using a high-speed Internet connection

> * perform admistrative tasks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* performing admistrative tasks
```

> * perform live demonstrations of applications installed on the remote machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* performing live demonstrations of applications installed on the remote machine
```

> In this tutorial you learn deploying a remote desktop on a Instance running on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS) by using the following stack: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you learn how to deploy a remote desktop on an Instance running on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS) by using the following stack: 
```

* [xRDP](http://xrdp.org/) - an open-source alternative to Microsoft RDP (Microsoft Remote Desktop Protocol).
* [xfce](https://xfce.org/) - a lightweight and stable desktop environment 

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
- You have an Instance running on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
- You have sudo privileges or access to the root user

</Message>

## Preparing the remote machine

1. Connect to your Instance using `ssh`:

  ```
  ssh root@<your_instance_ip>
  ```

> 2. Update the `apt` sources list and upgrade the software already installed on the instance:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Update the `apt` sources list and upgrade the software already installed on the Instance:
```

       Active: active (running) since Fri 2022-05-06 14:40:08 UTC; 47s ago
  ```

  In case the service has not been started automatically, start it with `systemctl`:

  ```
  systemctl start xrdp
  ```

6. Open the xRDP configuration file in a text editor of your choice, for example `nano`:

  ```
  nano /etc/xrdp/xrdp.ini
  ```

5. Scroll to the bottom of the file and add the following line, then save the file and exit the text editor:

  ```
  exec startxfce4
  ```

6. Restart the xrdp service using `systemctl` to activate the new configuration:

  ```
  systemctl restart xrdp
  ```

## Configuring the firewall

1. Restrict the access to port `3389` to an IP address or a range of IPs. To allow access from the block `192.168.1.0/24` launch the following command:

  ```
  ufw allow from 192.168.1.0/24 to any port 3389
  ```

  To allow connections from any host run the following command:

  ```
  ufw allow 3389
  ```
  <Message type="important">

  Exposing the service to any IP may cause a security issue.

  </Message>

2. Enable the firewall:

  ```
  ufw enable
  ```

  <Message type="tip">

>   For more information on how to configure the firewall of your Instance, you can [read our tutorial about the configuration of ufw on Ubuntu](/tutorials/installation-uncomplicated-firewall/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For more information on how to configure your Instance's firewall, you can [read our tutorial about the configuration of ufw on Ubuntu](/tutorials/installation-uncomplicated-firewall/).
```

  </Message>

## Configuring a regular user

> We recommend you create a regular user to connect to the remote desktop, to avoid security issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend you create a regular user on your Instance, other than the root user, to connect to the remote desktop, to avoid security issues.
```

1. Add the user with the `adduser` command:

  ```
  adduser <myuser>
  ```

2. Install sudo using the `apt` package manager if you want to give superuser rights to the user. (Optional).

  ```
  apt install sudo
  ```

3. Add the user to the sudoers file. (Optional)

  ```
  adduser <myuser> sudo
  ```

## Connecting to the remote desktop

> 1. Download and install a RDP client of your choice. In this tutorial we use the [Microsoft Remote Desktop Client](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/clients/remote-desktop-clients).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Download and install an RDP client of your choice. In this tutorial we use the [Microsoft Remote Desktop Client](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/clients/remote-desktop-clients).
```

2. Start the RDP client and click **Add Desktop** to add a new connection:

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-rdp_01.webp" alt="" />

> 3. Enter the connection details. You must enter at least your Instance's IP under **PC name**. Optionally, you can add a **Friendly Name** to facilitate the identification of your instance in case you configure several RDP connections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Enter the connection details. You must enter at least your Instance's IP under **PC name**. Optionally, you can add a **Friendly Name** to facilitate the identification of your Instance in case you configure several RDP connections.
```
